cryptograpy:
Cryptography is the practice of securing communication and information by converting it into a form that is unintelligible to unauthorized individuals.
It involves techniques and methods for encryption, decryption, and various cryptographic protocols to ensure confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and non-repudiation of data.

Ex: 
1.ceaser-cypher
  It is encoding and decoding technique with a shift number,where the positions of characters in the plaintext message are rearranged to form the ciphertext
2.columnar transposition cipher
  The rearrangement is done by writing the plaintext message in a grid or matrix, and then reading the columns of the grid in a specific order to obtain the ciphertext.
3.Enigma Machine
  The Enigma machine is an electromechanical encryption device that was widely used by various military and government organizations, particularly in Germany, during World War II. 
  It was designed to provide secure communication by encrypting and decrypting messages.It is a mapping of alphabets.

4.End-to-end encryption:
  End-to-end encryption (E2EE) is a method of secure communication that ensures the confidentiality and integrity of data exchanged between two parties.
  It is designed to prevent unauthorized access to the content of messages or any intermediary, including service providers, from being able to decrypt or view the information.
  security key is stored on the users device itself.
5.Symmetric encryption:
  It uses same key to encrypt and decrypt messages.
6.Asymmetric encryption:
  It uses different keys for encryption and decryption.
7.public-key crytograpy
  -two keys: private and public,It is easy to get from private key to public key,but hard to get to private from public key.
  use cases
  1: send a message
  2: prove ownership
  Tranasport layer security
  
  
  Cryptography in Bitcoin 
      -not encrypted
      -digital signatures
      -cryptographic hashes
 
 
 ECDSA
 Hashing:
 It has important proprties,so used in bitcoin
 If anything changes the whole output changes.
 
 Cryptocurreny mining:
 Cryptocurrency mining is the process by which new cryptocurrency coins are created and transactions are verified and added to the blockchain public ledger.
 It involves using computational power to solve complex mathematical problems that validate and secure the cryptocurrency network.
 
 
 
  
  
  
